Your game might be running in the worst
possible presentation mode right now and
you have absolutely no idea. This one
setting is adding input lag that no
mouse, no monitor, and no PC upgrade
will ever fix. Let me show you how to
fix it in just 60 seconds. So, if you
don't know who I am, I'm Selly. I've
worked on over 10,000 computers and I've
worked with some of your favorite
Fortnite pros like Bugha, Swizzy, Jason,
and [music] more as well as Call of Duty
legend Parasite. So, what is
presentation model and why does it
matter? Think of it like a delivery
chain between your graphics card and
your screen. Your graphics card renders
a frame. How that frame gets from your
GPU to your monitor depends entirely on
the presentation model your game is
running. There are a few you'll see in
present mon, but the two that matter
most are these. The post flip, this is
the bad one. When you see this, it means
Windows is inter- is thing every single
frame your GPU renders, running it
through its [music] own compositor
called DWM, doing its own processing,
and then delivering it to your screen.
You are not seeing your game, you're
seeing what Windows decided to show you
after it's finished with it. This can
add extra latency compared to
independent flip, especially in
competitive scenarios. Hardware
independent flip is what you want. This
means your game's going directly from
your GPU to your screen. It minimizes
compositor involvement and reduces
latency. No extra processing, no added
latency, clean signal. Hardware legacy
flip, this is the old full screen
exclusive mode, the one that makes your
game go back when you alt tab. It is not
ideal, but it is significantly better
than compose flip and we will come back
to this one later. So, if you are in
compose flip, the fix is actually way
simpler than most people think. And
funny enough, the reason why I took down
my last video is because of what I'm
about to tell you. An overlay was
pushing my game into compose flip during
testing and I didn't catch it. So, yeah,
this stuff is real. But before we get
into the fix, let me show you how to
actually check your present mode
properly because the overlay version of
present mon that I used in the original
video can actually affect your results.
So, we're going to use the CLI version
instead which runs in the background
with no overlay so you're getting
accurate data. In the description,
there's going to be a download link for
a zip file that has the script and
present mon inside of it and we made
this just to make it super duper easy.
download it, extract it, and that's all
you need for this. Now, before we run
it, just make sure your game is already
running and it's in full screen. And
once it is, just tap back into where you
have files at and we're going to double
click our present mon check.bat and just
make sure you run as administrator.
Then, you just want to press any key.
It's going to scan the active processes
that are running on your PC. For
example, Fortnite's going to be the top
one for me. We're going to choose that
one and press one on that. And then,
we're going to tab back into our game.
And the reason why we want to tab back
into our game is so that the game is
actually running in the present mode
we're checking. And within 10 seconds,
we're going to automatically see the CSV
file that has all the results from
present mon and we're going to
double-check what our presentation model
is actually running at. So, again, just
make sure that you are in full screen in
the game settings. So, for example, in
Fortnite, it's full screen. Windowed
full screen might actually be in compose
flip. So, just double-check that. But,
most people that are on MPO on and then
optimizations for windowed games turned
on, windowed full screen should be in
independent flip as well as full screen.
And for Call of Duty, it's very
important that you actually do full
screen exclusive as that game has that
specific setting in the settings. So,
once the bat file is done, it's going to
ask you what do you want to open up the
CSV file with. You can just open it up
with notepad. It's perfectly fine to use
that for this type of case. Now, as you
can see, this is the notepad. So, it's
going to be very hard to read, but
basically, where it says hardware
independent, that's basically what my
game is running at. So, we are good to
go. So, as you guys can see, my game's
running in hardware independent flip and
there's absolutely no problems with the
game. Now, for you, you might see
actually compose and then colon flip.
So, in that case, that's a problem. That
means you're in compose flip. So,
there's a couple ways that could be the
reason why. The fix is pretty simple
though. First, just make sure your game
is in full screen or full screen
exclusive, not borderless and not
windowed. Full screen exclusive, that's
going to pretty much fix it for a lot of
people. Second thing, if you're going to
use the Nvidia overlay, you go into its
settings and disable desktop capture.
That specific feature will push you
straight into compose flip. So, just
turn it off and check again after
relaunching the game. And generally, if
you have any overlay running that you
don't actually need, turn it off while
you're gaming. Discord overlay is fine,
Steam overlay is fine, Xbox game bar is
also generally fine. It's specifically
anything that hasn't been optimized
properly or if you have multi-plane
overlay disabled within overlays, that's
sometimes going to cause you problems.
So, once you've made those changes, just
run the bat file again, stay in your
game for the full 10 seconds, and then
check the CSV file with notepad. You
should be out of compose flip. Now, all
this stuff should work. If for whatever
reason it's still not independent, then
there could be a problem with one of the
things that you are running in the
background. So, again, in my case, I was
running Intel present mon and let's just
say I ran it with multi-plane overlay
disabled, the game would still run in
hardware independent flip. However,
because multi-plane overlay kind of
helps with overlays and keeping your
game in independent flip, the Intel
present mon specific overlay wasn't
optimized by Intel at all. So, they
didn't properly implement the overlays
within games. So, it would actually just
force my game into compose flip if I had
multi-plane overlay disabled. However,
if I closed Intel present mon, so the
version with the overlay, and I just
used this version with the script and I
had multi-plane overlay disabled, it
would still be in hardware independent
flip. So, I made that whole video
previously completely wrong and I
apologize to anyone that has watched
that video and was completely misled. I
was also misled as well. So, let's just
say you have tried absolutely everything
and you just cannot seem to get the game
in hardware independent flip. In that
case, we can opt in for something called
hardware legacy flip. So, this is the
old full screen exclusive back, you
know, in Windows 10 days. Whenever you
disable full screen optimizations in the
game's EXE, you pretty much are going to
be running in full screen exclusive. So,
stuff like this volume bar would not be
over your screen and a lot of overlays
would not be working whenever you're in
full screen exclusive. So, if you want
to restore that function, you could do
the following. However, I wouldn't
really recommend this for most people.
This is more of like a fix that if you
just tried everything previously and
it's still in compose flip, you might as
well just try this. So, again, want to
make that clear, you do not have to do
this at all. To do this, all you want to
do is open up your registry editor and
we're going to scroll all the way back
up to the top, go to HKEY_CURRENT_USER.
We're going to go to system and then
we're going to go to game config store
and then click children. Then, on your
keyboard, you're going to type control
F. This is going to bring up the find
box and what you're going to want to
type is the game's name. So, it could be
Fortnite, Valorant, Counter-Strike 2, or
any DirectX 11 based video game. Let's
just say it's a DirectX 12 based video
game or anything else, this method is
not going to work whatsoever. So, you
just need to fix that completely and
those games should realistically be in
independent flip. They shouldn't really
have any problems with compose flip.
But, let's just say you're playing a
DirectX 11 game like you're using legacy
performance mode in Fortnite for
example, that's DirectX 11. So, you
might want to do this. So, again, I'm
going to choose Fortnite. I'm going to
type that, click find next, and in the
flags, you're just going to set this to
211. And what that's going to do is set
up the game in full screen exclusive and
disable all full screen optimizations.
Now, press control F again and click
find next again and press it one more
time and there's going to be a second
one sometimes that has the Fortnite
flags key. You're just going to change
that to 211 as well. Then, press F3,
that's the shortcut for the find
command. If it says searching the
registry like this, that means it's
completely done. You don't have anything
else in that children key that is
related to Fortnite. So, that's how you
do full screen exclusive. If you want to
put it back, just flags to 11 and you
don't need to restart the PC at all. All
you need to do is just restart the game.
So, again, want to make that clear, this
is not recommended. This is just if you
cannot possibly get the game to run in
full screen independent flip for
whatever reason. This is like kind of
your alternative that is going to fix it
and get you out of the compose flip, but
you are going to have longer alt tabs,
certain overlays in the game might not
work, but your performance is going to
be solid. The kind of thing that we
check on every PC build at Selly, BIOS,
Windows, drivers, presentation models,
all of it. If you want your entire PC
dialed in properly, link is in the
description, selly.net, and drop your
presentation model in the comments.
Independent flip, legacy flip, or
compose, let's see what everyone is
actually running on. And if you were in
compose, let me know if any of this
helps. Subscribe if this helped and I'll
see you in the next one. Peace.